# Minerva

Project: Minerva: Music Sentiment Analysis
Group Members: Michael Hainsworth, Erin Henderson, Ben Nunley
Client: Dr. Gilliean Lee
Faculty Supervisors: Dr. Gilliean Lee and Dr. Farha Ali
Justification: Stereotypes exist for certain music genres and time periods. It is widely accepted that all rap and metal songs are violent, while country music is generally held to focus on themes of sadness. Are these stereotypes accurate or a result of the most popular songs from a genre coloring the overall opinion of the style? Lyrical content is typically the means of determining the emotions associated with songs, but analyzing a large number of individual songs within a genre to answer the previous question is impractical. This program will be able to make answering these questions possible by collecting lyrics from websites and analyzing the sentiments of those lyrics. The program will be able to provide music researchers and listeners with sentiment analysis for different artists, genres, and time periods. 
Problem Characteristics and Requirements:
Functional:
1)	Search
a)	Select search criteria
i)	By artist
ii)	By genre
iii)	By decade
2)	Comparison search
3)	Display results in graph
4)	Download results
Non-Functional:
1)	Format of results download: graph image, results as text
2)	User-friendly and intuitive GUI
3)	Easy-to-read results graph
4)	Platform independent
5)	Scalable – addition of more computers to improve processing power
Project Feasibility: The group has experience with Java (Swing/JavaFX) and database management, both of which will be fundamental to the completion of this project. This background will provide the framework that will allow us to develop the new skills required for this project to succeed. We need to acquaint ourselves with Apache Hadoop for data processing and learn how to use a Selenium project for data gathering. In spite of the constraints presented by the need to learn these new concepts and technologies, it is still practical for us to complete this in a timely manner.
Beneficiaries: The primary beneficiary of this project is our supervisor, Dr. Gilliean Lee. The program could also be useful to musicologists, particularly those studying the emotional content of music. Even the casual music listener may be interested in the results regarding the sentiments found in their favorite genre of music. 
Project Deliverables:
1)	Scope statement
2)	Analysis and design diagrams and documents
a)	Gantt chart
b)	Use cases and use case descriptions
c)	Class diagrams
d)	ER diagram
e)	Activity diagram
f)	Sequence and communication diagrams
g)	Windows navigation diagram
h)	User manual with architecture diagram
3)	Music Analysis application and source code
4)	Installation
5)	User training
Project Milestones:
 
Success Criteria: The program includes all of the features requested by the client, operates with little to no issues, and is delivered on time. The program fulfills all functional and non-functional requirements and is found satisfactory to the client. As a means of answering the type of questions that inspired this project, the results generated by the program should contribute to the research of music in a meaningful way.

Team Limitations:
	1) Work
	2) Other classes
	3) Unexpected life events
Disclaimer: This scope statement may change at any time at the discretion of our supervisors. 
	
